Hey there, Polycasters.
Rob here.
Today on the show we're
going to be looking
at how to test
elements that require
Ajax to talk to their back in
using a web component tester.
That made no sense.
Let me back up.
Today on the show we're going to
be continuing our series on Web
Component Tester by
looking at how to test
elements that require Ajax.
Now, if you go check out the
documentation for Web Component
Tester, you'll see
up there at the top
there's a list of the libraries
that come with Web Component
Tester itself.
So we've got Mocha-- that
is our testing framework.
We've got Chai, which is
our assertion library,
and we'll be talking
about that in a bit.
We've got Async
and Lodash-- these
are libraries that are just
sort of like utilities.
They help us do things
like manage callbacks
and do fancy functional stuff.
And lastly, we've got Sinon.
And Sinon is a little library
that lets you mock XHR request,
create fake servers,
do really anything
you'd want to do if you wanted
to simulate an actual server.
And rather than create some
brand new component or anything
like that, I'm just
going to write unit
test for a preexisting element.
So I'm actually going to use
one of the Polymer team's
elements, iron-ajax,
and I'm going
to write tests against that.
So that way I don't
have to come up
with a weird, contrived
example because I'm lazy.
So what I'm going to
do in my test file
is start off by
importing iron-ajax.
And then I'm going to write
a little test fixture for it.
So inside this test fixture
I've got a little iron-ajax tag,
and its URL is set to
"responds to get with JSON".
All right?
And then after that I'm going
to create the suite that's going
to hold all of my unit tests.
So I'm just going to call
my suite iron-ajax just
so it's a nice general thing.
And I'm going to create some
global variables in here.
These are just going to keep
track of the iron-ajax tag,
of the requesters we're sending
it out, of the Sinon server
we're going to set up.
Nothing too fancy here.
After that is created, I'm
going to call a setup function.
And this is where I'm
going to go ahead and start
to build my Sinon server.
So I'll call Sinon
fix server create.
That's going to return an
instance of the server.
And then I can call this
respond with method.
And what that's
going to let me do
is basically set up routes
that I want the fake server
to respond to.
So what I'm saying
here is when there's
a get request for the route
"responds to get with JSON",
I want it to respond
with a status code 200.
I want it to send back
those response headers
that I created up at the top.
And lastly, I want to
send back this little JSON
payload that says success true.
Yay.
So I've got that squared away.
Next thing I'm going to
do is create a little tear
down function.
And in this tear
down function I'm
going to tell the
server to restore
itself, which basically means
like clean up after yourself.
If you created global
variables, if there's
any shared stake, anything
like that, just get rid of that
so when we run the next test
it'll be a nice clean slate.
OK?
So I've got that squared away.
Now I can write the
suite that's actually
going to hold my unit tests.
Inside of here I will
call a setup function.
I'm going to grab
my test fixture
and store it in that Ajax
variable that I created.
And my first test
here is just going
to verify that the iron-ajax
request is going out,
and that I'm getting
a response back,
and that the data in that
response looks correct.
The test message is going to
be "has seen defaults that love
you" because it does love you.
So my request object is going
to call Ajax generate request.
And then I can just
call server.respond.
And this is one of the cool
parts about working with Sinon.
Normally you would have to, if
this was a real server, you'd
have to wait some amount of
time, set up an event listener,
do some sort of like Async test
thing to get that response.
Here we can treat it
like it's synchronous,
and that's really nice.
It mean our tests are
going to be really fast.
And after that I can use expect
to inspect the response object
that I got back.
Now in the last video, I used
assert to inspect my objects.
This time we're using expect.
And basically, because
we're using Chai,
we have a few different
assertion types
that we can use, a few
different assertion libraries,
if you will.
You can go check out the
documentation for Chai.
Maybe I should include a
link to that or something.
Expect-- just another
flavor of assertion.
Really not too different.
What we're doing
here is we're first
checking that the
response is OK,
and that means that it wasn't
an error, it wasn't null,
we got something back.
We're checking that
it's an object, right?
That's what we're
expecting to see.
And lastly, we're
checking that the success
property is set to true, OK?
This looks OK to me.
Let's switch over
to the terminal,
and we're going to
run the WCT command.
All right.
Things are happening.
And we get our test back.
Awesome.
All right.
Everything's green.
Looking good.
I want to do some
more testing though.
I want to test a post request.
So I'm going to create a
brand new test fixture.
And this time, I'm again
using an iron-ajax element.
I'm setting the method
to post and the URL
is "responds to post with JSON".
Just like we did
for the get request,
we will set up a route
in our Sinon fake server.
So we're going to
say that we want
it to listen for post
requests on the route
"responds to post with JSON".
When it hears that, it should
send back a 200-- same response
headers as last time-- and this
time the object it sends back
is going to say post
request is true.
Yay.
Over here in our
test, I'll write
a brand new suite for
making simple post requests.
The first test I'm
actually just going
to verify that when
I set that method
to post that that is actually
setting the XHR method.
So I'm not even
calling Sinon here.
I'm just verifying
that under the hood
the element does
what it expects.
After that I'm going to
go ahead and actually ping
the Sinon server.
Now I'm going to test
that the response is OK,
I'm going to test
that it is an object,
and I'm going to test that
post success is equal to true.
All right?
Let's switch over
to our terminal,
we will run Web Component
Tester, and we will wait.
Waiting on things to happen.
Great.
So all of our tests are passing.
Everything's green.
Now, what if those tests
weren't passing though?
What if one of them had failed?
What if it was just
one browser that failed
or something weird like that?
What would we do?
This is where I'm going to
show you a little trick here.
When we run the Web
Component Tester command,
we can actually
pass up the -p flag.
And what this is
going to do is it's
going to leave all the
browser windows open.
And this is really
useful because it
means we can open up the console
for those different browsers,
we can inspect them, and
if there were errors,
they are going to show up there.
So here I've got Firefox.
I'm going to zoom in.
I'm going to open the
Firefox dev tools.
So I'm going to enhance this.
And you'll see that I've
got my test listed here.
But if there were
any errors, they
would show up there as well.
So pretty helpful feature there.
All right, that covers
testing with Ajax with Sinon.
There's actually a lot
more you can do with Sinon
but I've definitely given
you enough to get started.
There's a lot more that I want
to cover with Web Component
Tester though.
So if there are segments that
you are interested in seeing,
please leave a
comment down below.
That way we can try and make
some of those episodes happen.
Also consider clicking that Like
button or the Subscribe button
if you truly love me.
And if you have
some questions, you
can ping us on a social
network of your choosing
at #AskPolymer.
As always, thank you
so much for watching.
I'll see you next time
Turn your phones off.
Gotham needs me.
Response codes.
I got ahead of myself.